# Single Cell RNA-Seq Workflow

The scripts in this repository perform the basic steps involved in aligning and analyzing single cell RNA-Seq experiments entirely in R. The scripts should work on almost any operating system. As there are many steps in the workflow, I have divided related tasks into several scripts.

When I was learning data analysis, I always found the examples given in R and Bioconductor supremely frustrating. The examples were very polished datasets that looked nothing like the messy data we commonly analyze in real world experiments. The example data in R is often in a data structure or object class that is convenient to describe the package and underlying concepts. However, once again, these the data structures used in R/Bioconductor example datasets are often different than the data found real world experiments. To help people learn single cell RNA-Seq analysis, I have started with a real, published dataset derived from the Fluidigm C1 cell sorter followed by Illumina MiSeq sequencing. You will probably need about 0.5-2 terabytes of free space on your hard-drive, depending on if you use the “low read” data set or “high read” data set published in the sam SRA project. If you need more computer resources, I outline in one of my other github repositories how to start a virtual computer in the cloud on Google Cloud Platform. When I have time, I will upload scripts relating to the analysis of UMI-tagged reads such as those used in the droplet-based library prep, such as that used by 10X Genomics.
